Add tutorial for securing MCP servers with WSO2 Identity Server/ Asgardeo and integrating them with n8n Agentic flows (#6078)
wso2/docs-is: en/includes/tutorials/secure-mcp-servers-and-integrate-them-with-n8n-agentic-flows.md

At the same time, no-code and low-code platforms such as [n8n](https://n8n.io/) are rapidly increasing the number of MCP clients being built. This creates an important question: **Are these clients integrating with MCP servers using proper security standards?**

The good news is that secure MCP ecosystems can be built using {% if product_name == "Asgardeo" %}[Asgardeo](https://asgardeo.io/){% else %}[WSO2 Identity Server](https://wso2.com/products/downloads/?product=wso2is){% endif %}. By leveraging {{ product_name }} for authentication and authorization, you can protect MCP servers and ensure that only trusted clients and users are allowed to access specific tools.

In this tutorial, you will:

1. Run n8n locally.
2. Create an MCP client application in {{ product_name }}.
3. Configure and run a demo MCP server.
4. Configure the n8n MCP client to use OAuth 2.0 with PKCE.

> 5. Invoke the secured MCP server from the n8n chat interface.

Reviewer: This section should outline the objectives, rather than merely mentioning the steps.

Author: okay, I'll change

## Step 1: Set up n8n

> First, clone this [repository](https://github.com/AkinduH/iam-ai-samples) and go to the `mcp-auth/integrations/mcp-auth-n8n-example` directory to access the required project files and sample workflow.

Reviewer: personal repo link?

Author: fixed now

> First, clone this [repository](https://github.com/AkinduH/iam-ai-samples) and go to the `mcp-auth/integrations/mcp-auth-n8n-example` directory to access the required project files and sample workflow.

Reviewer: this has nothing to do with n8n setup. these info should come after the n8n setup step.

Reviewer: On a second thought, since the files in the sample are needed for configuring n8n, let's add this info under the "import Mcp workflow" step

Author: Or we can add it before the Step 1. So the people can first clone and run n8n inside that workplace. It will be more easy for them, if we first tell them to create the workplace. WDYT @pavinduLakshan

Reviewer: > Or we can add it before the Step 1. So the people can first clone and run n8n inside that workplace. It will be more easy for them, if we first tell them to create the workplace. WDYT @pavinduLakshan

Yes, that works too. Let's do it.

> To install and run n8n locally using either Docker or Node.js, follow this [step-by-step guide](https://community.n8n.io/t/how-to-install-n8n-locally-docker-or-node-js-step-by-step/228296) from the n8n community.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Follow [n8n documentation](https://community.n8n.io/t/how-to-install-n8n-locally-docker-or-node-js-step-by-step/228296) to install and run n8n locally using either Docker or Node.js.
```

Author: done

### Import the MCP client workflow

> 1. Open the n8n UI.

Reviewer: better if we can mention the URL to access.

Author: done

2. Select **Create Workflow**.
3. Select **Import from File**.

![Import n8n workflow]({{base_path}}/assets/img/tutorials/secure-mcp-servers-and-integrate-them-with-n8n-agentic-flows/import-n8n-workflow.png){: width="800" style="display: block; margin: 0; border: 0.3px solid lightgrey;"}

Select the `mcp-client-n8n-example.json` file from the cloned repository.

![n8n workflow]({{base_path}}/assets/img/tutorials/secure-mcp-servers-and-integrate-them-with-n8n-agentic-flows/n8n-workflow.png){: width="800" style="display: block; margin: 0; border: 0.3px solid lightgrey;"}

## Step 2: Set up {{ product_name }}

1. Go to the {{ product_name }} Console.

> 2. Create an application for your MCP client.

Reviewer: Redundant info as this is repeated under "create an MCP client application" step

```suggestion
```

### Create an MCP client application

> 1. Open the **Applications** tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. On {{ product_name }} Console, Go to **Applications**.
```

> 2. Select **New Application**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Click on **New Application**.
```

3. Select **MCP Client Application**.

![Create MCP client application]({{base_path}}/assets/img/tutorials/secure-mcp-servers-and-integrate-them-with-n8n-agentic-flows/create-mcp-client-application.png){: width="800" style="display: block; margin: 0; border: 0.3px solid lightgrey;"}

Configure the application with the following values:
	- **Application Name**: `n8n-example`
	- **Redirect URL**: `http://localhost:5678/rest/oauth2-credential/callback`

> 	- Disable **Public Client**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	- Disable **Public Client** option, as n8n currently only supports confidential clients and expects the client secret during configuration. 
```

!!! note
		Why disable Public Client?

> 		In practice, MCP Clients can be public  clients  with the PKCE enabled OAuth flow. However, n8n currently supports confidential clients and expects the client secret during configuration. Hence, let’s configure the application like this.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
